.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wn 1 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wn \- server for the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wn
is a server for the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP).  Its primary
design goals are security and functionality usually available only
with complex CGI scripts without the necessity of writing or using
these scripts.  This includes extensive security checks, full text
searching and conditionally served text.

Despite this extensive functionality the
.B wn
executable is substantially smaller than the CERN or NCSA servers.
Both a stand-alone daemon
.BR wnswnd (8)
and a version
.BR wnwnd (8)
intended for use under
.BR inetd (8)
are provided.  The
.BR inetd (8)
version is designed to minimize the use of system resources and it is
appropriate for moderate or lightly loaded servers which cannot be
totally dedicated to Web serving.

The
.B wn
security model is based on the use of a small flat database in each
directory with information about the files in that directory.  Fields
associated with a file include its title, and may include keywords,
expiration date and any user defined fields like author or document
id.  Unlike other servers, the default action for
.B wn
is to deny access to a file.  A file can only be served if explicit
permission to do so has been granted by entering it in this database.

There is extensive documentation on
.B wn
mainly in HTML format in
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/index.html
page.  There
are also
.BR man (1)
pages on most components.

The
.B wn
package is organized into the following components:
.TP
.B DAEMONS
The actual HTTP servers.
.TP
.B SERVER UTILITIES
Programs to assist in the maintenance of a server.
.TP
.B HTML UTILITES
Programs to assist in the construction of HTML documents.
.TP
.B CGI PROGRAMS
Programs to provide additional capabilites to the basic server.
.SH DAEMONS
.TP
.BR wnwnd (8)
The
.BR inetd (8)
based daemon.
.TP
.BR wnswnd (8)
The stand-alone daemon.
.SH SERVER UTILITES
.TP
.BR wnconfig (8)
Simple run-time configuration of
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wndex (8)
Create access control file for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnpasswd (8)
Create and manage password files for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnuncache (8)
Decompile access control file for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnupdate-www (8)
Enable access to standard directories through
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnv2c (8)
Convert logfile for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.SH HTML UTILITES
.TP
.BR wndigest (1)
Produce HTML links to document sections for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnhtmlify (1)
Produce simple HTML document from text for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnindexmaker (1)
Produce index to a set of HTML files for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnpnuts (1)
Produce navigation links to a set of HTML files for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.SH CGI PROGRAMS
.TP
.BR wnauth (3)
CGI program for Basic authorization for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wncat (3)
CGI program for listing (un)compressed files for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnredir (3)
CGI program for redirecting to a new URL for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnsectsearch (3)
CGI program for searching files for sections for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.TP
.BR wnseven_m (3)
CGI program for searching files for sections for
.B wn
HTTP server.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/wn/wn.conf
Main configuration file for
.BR wn (1)
package.
.TP
.I /etc/wn/wn.rc
.BR sh (1)
wrapper program to start
.BR wn (1)
daemon with proper options.
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/wn
.BR sh (1)
program to start
.B wnswnd
stand-alone daemon from
.BR init (8)
process.
.TP
.I /etc/cron.daily/wn
.BR sh (1)
program to re-index standard documentation directories.  It is run
daily by the
.BR cron (8)
daemon.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wndigest (1),
.BR wnhtmlify (1),
.BR wnindexmaker (1),
.BR wnpnuts (1),
.BR wnauth (3),
.BR wncat (3),
.BR wnredir (3),
.BR wnsectsearch (3),
.BR wnseven_m (3),
.BR wnconfig (8),
.BR wndex (8),
.BR wnpasswd (8),
.BR wnuncache (8),
.BR wnupdate-www (8),
.BR wnv2c (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
