.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wnindexmaker 1 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wnindexmaker \- produce index to a set of HTML files for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wnindexmaker
.RB [\| \-t
.IR title \|]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR directory \|]
.RB [\| \-o
.IR out_file \|]
.IR words_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wnindexmaker
is a
.BR perl (1)
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.  It produces an index (in the usual sense not the
.BR wn (1)
sense) for a virtual document consisting of a number of HTML files in
a single directory.  The index is placed in an output file which
contains a list of anchors, one for each word in the words file. Each
word is linked to a context search for itself.  The index to the
manual
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/index.html
is a good example of how an index produced by
.B wnindexmaker
works.

.IR words_file
is the final argument to the
.B wnindexmaker
program.  It is a list of words or phrases, in alphabetical order, one
per line, which you wish to appear in the index. One way to produce it
is to use UNIX utilities to produce a list of all words in the files,
then run
.BR sort (1)
\-dfu on it and remove unsuitable words from the list.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-d " directory
The directory containing the files being indexed.  It should either
begin with a '/' and be relative to the
.BR wn (1)
root directory or not begin with a '/' and be relative to the
directory which will contain the output file.  If this option is not
used then the output file must reside in the same directory as the
files being indexed. If this is done then it is a good idea to add an
"Attribute=nosearch" to the output file record in the index file for
the directory. Otherwise the output file will index itself in addition
to the other files in the directory.
.TP
.BI "\-o " out_file
Sets the name of the output HTML documentation file to
.IR out_file.
The default is docindex.html.
.TP
.BI "\-t " title
Sets the title of the output HTML document to
.IR title.
The default is "Index".
.SH FILES
.TP
.I out_file
Output of the
.B wnindexmaker
program.
.TP
.I words_file
Input to the
.B wnindexmaker
program.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR sort (1),
.BR wn (1),
.BR wndigest (1),
.BR wnhtmlify (1),
.BR wnpnuts (1)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/index.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/utility.html#indexmaker
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
