.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wnindexmaker 1 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wnpnuts \- produce navigation links to a set of HTML files for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wnpnuts
.RB [\| \-s
.IR search_url \|]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR index_url \|]
.IR hierarchy_file
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wnpnuts
is a
.BR perl (1)
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.

PNUTS (pronounced "peanuts") is an acronym for previous, next, up, top,
search.  The argument
.IR hierarchy_file
is the name of a file describing the hierarchical structure of a group
of HTML files constituting a single virtual document. The pnuts
program then searches these files for lines which begin with the
string

.nf
        <!-- pnuts -->
.fi

which it replaces with this string followed by a sequence of anchors
like

.nf
        [previous] [next] [ up] [ top] [ search] [ index]
.fi

with links to the relevant files in the virtual document. Actually it
replaces this line with a single line starting with <!-- pnuts -->,
followed by the anchors. That way the next time it is run, say after
inserting a new chapter in your document, the "pnuts" line will be
replaced by a new one with the appropriate links.

The file
.IR hierarchy_file
contains the information by which
.B wnpnuts
knows which files to process and what the order of those files should
be. It consists of a list of files relative to the current directory,
one per line, in the order which should be reflected in the [next]
[previous] links. If a file is hierarchically one level lower than the
previous file this should be indicated by preceding its name with one
more <tab> character than the preceding file. Here is an example:

.nf
        top.html
        second.html
        <tab>firstsub.html
        <tab><tab>subsub.html
        <tab>secondsub.html
        third.html
.fi

If this list is supplied to
.B wnpnuts
it will insert anchors into all these files wherever <!-- pnuts -->
occurs.  All those named [top] will point to the file top.html. In
firstsub.html and secondsub.html the [up] link will point to
second.html. The [previous] and [next] links will reflect the order
top.html, second.html, firstsub.html, subsub.html, secondsub.html,
third.html.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-s " search_url
The URL for the "[search]" anchor.  Optional with the default being no
search item in the list of items in the list of items inserted by
.B wnpnuts.
.TP
.BI "\-i " index_url
The URL for the "[index]" anchor.  Optional with the default being no
search item in the list of items in the list of items inserted by
.B wnpnuts.
This URL typically points to an an HTML document created with
.BR wnindexmaker (1).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I hierarchy_file
Text file showing hiearchy of HTML files that make up a "virtual"
document.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wndigest (1),
.BR wnhtmlify (1),
.BR wnindexmaker (1)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/index.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/utility.html#pnuts
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
