.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wnauth 3 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wnauth \- CGI program for Basic authorization for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wnauth
.RB [\| \-D \|]
.RB [\| \-g
.IB group_name \ \-G
.IR group_file \|]
.RB ([\| \-P
.IR password_file \|]\||\c
.IR password_file )
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wnauth
is a
.B C
CGI program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.  It is used for authenticating a user through
"Basic" authentication described in the HTTP protocol.  It is used in
conjunction with the
.BR wnpasswd (8)
utility to create password files and the
.I index
files "Authorization" entries (see
.BR http://dochost/doc/wn/access.html#authenticate ).
.SH WARNING
I would strongly advise against using basic authentication described
here to protect sensitive information on a server which runs on system
on which untrusted users have accounts.  The "Basic" authentication
protocol sends passwords across the network with no encryption.
Specifically, you should not use the host password file
.I /etc/passwd
as the
.BR wn (1)
password file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-D
The password file
.I passwd_file
uses the UNIX DBM database instead of a flat file format.
.TP
.BI "\-g " group_name
Use the group file specified by the
.B \-G
option and use
.I group_name
for authentication.
.TP
.BI "\-G " group_file
Use group authentication instead of the default user
authentication. The group file is a file in the format of a UNIX
.I /etc/group
file. That is, it has lines of the form:
.nf
        group_name:*:99:user1,user3,user5 
.fi
where the fields are separated by colons, the first field is a group
name, and the fourth field is a comma separated list of user
names.
.B wnauth
will ignore the second and third fields. If the line
above is in the file
.I group_file
and
.B wnauth
is invoked as above then a user
will be granted access provided the supplied password matches that in
the
.I wnpasswd
file and the user's username is in the list after the second ':' in
the line starting with the group name. Thus, in this example users
user1, user3, and user5 will be given access if they provide valid
passwords and other users will not.
.TP
.BI "\-P " password_file
The password file as created by the
.BR wnpasswd (8)
program.  This option can be used or the argument
.I passwork_file
by itself.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ./group_file
Group file for directory.
.TP
.I ./index
Access control file for directory.
.TP
.I ./index.cache
Access control database for directory.
.TP
.I ./password_file
Password file for directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wnauth (3),
.BR wncat (3),
.BR wnhtmlify (3),
.BR wnredir (3),
.BR wnsectsearch (3),
.BR wnseven_m (3),
.BR wnpasswd (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/access.html#authenticate
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixD.html
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
.SH BUGS
This page isn't complete.
