.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wn_mkpasswd 8 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wn_mkpasswd \- create and manage password files for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wn_mkpasswd
.RB [\| \-n
.RB [\| \-D \|]\c
.RB \|| \-d
.RB [\| \-D \|]\c
.RB \|| \-h \|]
.RB [\|\c
.IR passwd_file \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wn_mkpasswd
is a
.BR perl (1)
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.
It is used to create and manage password files for authenticating a
user through "Basic" authentication described in the HTTP protocol.

.B wn_mkpasswd
should be used the first time to create the password file:
.nf
        wn_mkpasswd -n passwd_file
.fi
This prompts you for a user name and password and then creates a
password file called
.I passwd_file
with that entry. On subsequent uses the
.B \-n
argument should be omitted so that entries will be added to the
existing file instead of starting a new one.  If a subsequent entry is
made with the same user name the entry for that user will be
replaced. If the
.I passwd_file
argument is omitted then the default name
of
.I wn_mkpasswd
is used.

There is another optional argument which may be used with this
program. The command:
.nf
        wn_mkpasswd -n -D passwd_file 
.fi
causes a UNIX DBM database to be created or used instead of a simple
flat file.  This is very useful if you have a very large number of
password entries. The database resides in the two
.I passwd_file.dir
and
.I passwd_file.pag
files.  To create a new database you must remove or rename the
.I .pag
and
.I .dir
files.

To remove a single entry from a password file use the command:
.nf
        wn_mkpasswd -d passwd_file 
.fi
or
.nf
        wn_mkpasswd -d -D passwd_file 
.fi
for a UNIX DBM database.

Once you have created your password file and made sure that it is
readable by the user id under which the
.BR wn (1)
server will run, you are ready to set up the
.BR wnauth (3)
authentication module.  This is done on a per directory basis by three
entries in directory record of the
.I index
file (see
.BR http://dochost/doc/wn/access.html#authenticate ).
.SH WARNING
I would strongly advise against using basic authentication described
here to protect sensitive information on a server which runs on system
on which untrusted users have accounts.  The "Basic" authentication
protocol sends passwords across the network with no encryption.
Specifically, you should not use the host password file
.I /etc/passwd
as the
.BR wn (1)
password file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-D
Use UNIX DBM database instead of flat file.
.PP
.B \-d
.RB [\|\c
.I passwd_file\c
.RB \|]
.RS
Delete a user from the
.I passwd_file
if the user exists.  If
.I passwd_file
is not supplied the default
.I wn_mkpasswd
is used instead.  If the password file is a UNIX DBM database, the
.B \-D
must also be provided.
.RE
.TP
.B \-h
Print help message.
.PP
.B \-n
.RB [\|\c
.I passwd_file\c
.RB \|]
.RS
Create new password database
.I passwd_file
or
.I wn_mkpasswd
if optional argument is not supplied.  If the
.B \-D
option is also supplied, a UNIX DBM database consisting of the files
.I passwd_file.dir
and
.I passwd_file.pag
is created instead.
.RE
.SH FILES
.PP
.I passwd_file\c
.RB [\|\c
.B .dir\c
.RB \||\|\c
.B .pag\c
.RB \|]
.RS
Database of users and corresponding passwords.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wnauth (3),
.BR wnconfig (8),
.BR wndex (8),
.BR wnuncache (8),
.BR wnupdate-www (8),
.BR wnv2c (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/access.html#authenticate
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
