.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wn_uncache 8 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wn_uncache \- decompile access control file for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wn_uncache
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wn_uncache
is a
.BR perl (1)
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.
.B wn_uncache
reverses the action of the
.BR wndex (8)
program. It will convert an
.I index.cache
file to
an
.I index
file. It read from its standard input and writes to its standard
output.

When invoked with:
.nf
        wn_uncache <index.cache >index 
.fi
it will create a file named
.I index
(overwriting any other file of that name). This file may not be
identical to the original
.I index
file
used to create
.I index.cache
but when
wndex (8)
is run on this new
.I index
it
should produce an
.I index.cache
identical to the one used as input for the
.B wn_uncache
program.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I index
Input file to
.BR wndex (8)
and output from the
.B wn_uncache
program.
.TP
.I index.cache
Output file from
.BR wndex (8)
and input to the
.B wn_uncache
program which defines access control for directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wnconfig (8),
.BR wndex (8),
.BR wnpasswd (8),
.BR wnupdate-www (8),
.BR wnv2c (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/utility.html#wn_uncache
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixB.html
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
