.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wnconfig 8 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wnconfig \- simple run-time configuration of wn HTTP server.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wnconfig
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wnconfig
is a
.BR sh (1)
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.
It helps you configure the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server. Its user interface is patterned after the Linux kernel
configuration program.  All questions have help which can be accessed
by entering "?" without the quotes. All other answers must have double
quotes around them. You need to define the values of several variable
defining directories and options used by the
.BR wn (1)
daemon and utilities. There is a standard configuration that you can
choose as a short cut. Once you're happy with the configuration you
can save the configuration. This also modifies the running system. You
can always exit without saving the configuration. You can rerun this
program again later by invoking
.B wnconfig
from a command line.

This is a very simple program which doesn't provide for extensive
customization. Advanced users are encouraged to edit the Debian
configuration files under
.I /etc/wn
directly instead of using this program.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/wn/wn.conf
Main configuration file for
.BR wn (1)
package.
.TP
.I /etc/wn/wn.rc
.BR sh (1)
wrapper program to start
.BR wn (1)
daemon with proper options.
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/wn
.BR sh (1)
program to start
.BR wnswnd (8)
stand-alone daemon from
.BR init (8)
process.
.TP
.I /etc/cron.daily/wn
.BR sh (1)
program to re-index standard documentation directories.  It is run
daily by the
.BR cron (8)
daemon.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wndex (8),
.BR wnpasswd (8),
.BR wnuncache (8),
.BR wnupdate-www (8),
.BR wnv2c (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
