.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wndex 8 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wndex \- create access control file for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wndex
.RB [\| \-a \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.RB [\| \-r \|]
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.RB [\| \-V \|]
.RB [\| \-x \|]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| \-d
.IR directory \|]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR file \|]
.RB [\| "\-s all" \||\| "index" \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wndex
is a
.B C
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.
.BR wn (1)
will not serve files in a directory without an
.I index.cache
file.
.B wndex
is used to produce the
.I index.cache
files from
.I index
files.

Executing
.B wndex
with no arguments in a directory containing an
.I index
file will produce the
.I index.cache
file for that directory. This file contains all the information in the
.I index
file plus additional information gathered automatically about the
files to be served. In particular the
.I index.cache
file will list the names of the files given in the "File=" directives
(see
.BR http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixB.html#file )
of the
.I index
file.  Any file on the server whose name is not listed in an
.I index.cache
file will not be served.  This is the basis of
.BR wn (1)
security.  For security reasons the server will refuse to use any
.I index.cache
file which is in reality a symbolic link to another file.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
Using the
.B \-a
option is equivalent to putting the directive
"Attributes=serveall" (see
.BR http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixB.html#serveall )
at the beginning of the
.I index
file (or files) being processed, with one important exception.  If
.B wndex
is used with this option in a directory which contains no
.I index
file, it will behave as if there were an
.I index
file containing only the line "Attributes=serveall".  This allows the
creation of an
.I index.cache
file permitting access to all files in a directory without first
creating an
.I index
file.  This can be used with
.B \-r
option to grant access to a directory hierarchy without the need to
create an
.I index
file in each directory.
.TP
.BI "\-c " file
Use
.I file
for name of database file instead of
.I index.cache
default.
.TP
.BI "\-d " directory
Process the directory
.I directory
rather than the current directory.  It will use the
.I index
file in
.I directory
and write the file
.I directory/index.cache
for the database file.
.TP
.BI "\-i " file
Read input from
.I file
rather than the default
.I index
file.
.TP
.B \-q
Suppress any warning messages (except fatal errors) sent to
.B stderr
as well as other informational messages.
.TP
.B \-r
Recursively descend through some subdirectories and process them as
well.  By default it processes only those subdirectories listed in the
"Subdirs=" directive (see
.BR http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixB.html#subdirs ).
However, this can be changed to be either all subdirectories or all
subdirectories containing an
.I index
file by use of
the
.B \-s
option described below.  If the
.B \-r
and
.B \-a
are used together then the default is to use all subdirectories.
.PP
.BR "\-s all" \||\c
.B index
.RS
Using the
.B "\-s index"
option with an
.I index
file containing no "Subdirs=" directive (see
.BR http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixB.html#subdirs )
is equivalent to having such a directive whose value is a list of all
subdirectories which contain an
.I index
file.  Using the 
.B "\-s all"
option with an
.I index
file containing no "Subdirs=" directive is equivalent to having such a
directive whose value is a list of all subdirectories of the directory
being processed.  If the
.B \-r
and
.B \-a
are used together then
.B "\-s all"
is automatically assumed.  This can be overridden by using a real
"Subdirs=" directive or using the
.B "\-s index"
option.
.RE
.TP
.B \-v
Be verbose while processing.
.TP
.B \-V
Print version and exit.
.TP
.B \-x
Read from standard input
instead of the file
.I index
and write to standard output rather
than the file
.I index.cache
database.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I index
Input file to
.B wndex
program.
.TP
.I index.cache
Output file from
.B wndex
program which defines access control for directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wnconfig (8),
.BR wnpasswd (8),
.BR wnuncache (8),
.BR wnupdate-www (8),
.BR wnv2c (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixA2.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixB.html
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
