.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wnd 8 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wnd, wnsd \- inetd and stand-alone daemons for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wnd
.RB [\| \-a
.IR numeric_uid \|]
.RB [\| \-A
.IR numeric_gid \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-e \|]
.RB [\| \-E \|]
.RB [\| \-h
.IR hostname \|]
.RB [\| \-L
.IR access_logfile \|]
.RB [\| \-l
.IR error_logfile \|]
.RB [\| \-S \|]
.RB [\| \-t
.IR trusted_uid \|]
.RB [\| \-T
.IR trusted_gid \|]
.RB [\| \-u \|]
.RB [\| "\-v common" \||\| "verbose" \||\| "ncsa" \|]
.RB [\| \-V
.IR virtual_host_file \|]
.IR directory

.B wnsd
.RB [\| \-a
.IR numeric_uid \|]
.RB [\| \-A
.IR numeric_gid \|]
.RB [\| \-d \|]
.RB [\| \-e \|]
.RB [\| \-E \|]
.RB [\| \-h
.IR hostname \|]
.RB [\| \-L
.IR access_logfile \|]
.RB [\| \-l
.IR error_logfile \|]
.RB [\| \-q
.IR pid_file \|]
.RB [\| \-S \|]
.RB [\| \-t
.IR trusted_uid \|]
.RB [\| \-T
.IR trusted_gid \|]
.RB [\| \-u \|]
.RB [\| "\-v common" \||\| "verbose" \||\| "ncsa" \|]
.RB [\| \-V
.IR virtual_host_file \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR port \|]
.RB [\| \-q
.IR pid_file \|]
.IR directory
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wnd
and
.B wnsd
are
.B C
programs that are part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.
.B wnd
is an HTTP daemon that is designed to be run from the
.BR inetd (8)
internet super-server usually from an entry in the
.I /etc/inetd.conf
file.
.B wnsd
is a stand-alone HTTP daemon that can be started from a command line
or from the
.BR init (8)
process.

The argument
.I directory
is the root data directory that the server will use to server
documents.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-a " numeric_uid
Set trusted numeric uid for authentication.  The server will only
allow password authentication (see
http://dochost/doc/wn/access.html#authenticate) if one of the options
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-t ,
or
.B \-T
is used.  Then the
.I index.cache
file for a password protected directory must be owned by
the user id specified with the
.B \-a
or
.B \-t
option.  The
.B \-a
option only affects authentication while
.B \-t
has other effects.  The four command line arguments
.BR \-a ,
.BR \-A ,
.BR \-t ,
and
.B \-T
all take a numeric argument.  Thus the command should be
.nf
        ./wnsd -a 203
.fi
and not
.nf
        ./wnsd -a joe
.fi
if user
.I joe
has user id
.IR 203 .
.TP
.BI "\-A " numeric_gid
Set trusted numeric gid for authentication.
This is similar to the
.B \-a
option except the group owner (gid) of the
.I index.cache
file is used instead of the uid.
.TP
.B \-d
Really verbose log.  When the server is run with this option it will
include copies of all the client headers plus some additional
information in the log file.  This is only useful for debugging or if
you are curious about what clients actually send.
.TP
.B \-e
Forbid CGI and execs.  When the server is run with this option it will
not execute a CGI script, a filter or any executable in an include.
In addition the server will reject any request with the
.B POST
method.
.TP
.B \-E
Forbid CGI and execs to trusted users.  This is similar to the
.B \-e
option except that
.I index.cache
files owned by a trusted user id or trusted group id (set with the
.B \-t
or
.B \-T
option) are exempt from the restrictions.  That is, only scripts
listed in
.I index.cache
files owned by the trusted user or group will be executed.  If neither
the
.B \-t
or
.B \-T
are used then no scripts, filters or includes will be executed.  This
option takes precedence over the
.B \-u
option, i.e. if both are used execution of scripts and programs
behaves as if the
.B \-u
were not present (although the
.B \-u
option still grants permission for the serving of ordinary files).

.TP
.BI "\-h " hostname
Set hostname.
Tell the server that its name is
.IR hostname .
This is only used for two things: to pass to CGI scripts and for
redirects generated when a trailing '/' is omitted in a URL path to a
directory.  It is a shame browsers can't handle relative URL
redirects!
.TP
.BI "\-L " access_logfile
Set access logfile name.  Write log information to the file
.IR access_logfile .
This will override the value specified when you ran the configure
program during installation of
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.  If the empty string "" is used as the value of
this option then no transaction logging will be done.
.TP
.BI "\-l " error_logfile
Set error logfile name.
Write information about errors to the file
.IR error_logfile .
This will override the value specified when you ran the configure
program during installation of
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.  If the empty string "" is used as the value of
this option then the logfile given with
.B \-L
is used for errors as well as regular transactions.
.TP
.BI "\-p " port
Set the port.  For
.B wnsd
only.  Running the command
.nf
        ./wnsd -p 8080
.fi
will run the server on port
.I 8080
rather than the default which is normally
.I 80
but can be
set in
.IR config.h .
If a value less than or equal to
.I 1024
is used then the server must be run by
.B root
(it will change its permissions after opening the port).  This option
is only used by
.B wnsd
since when
.B wnd
is run under
.BR inetd (8)
the port is determined by the setting in
.IR  /etc/services .
.TP
.BI "\-q " pid_file
Set the file name which contains the
.B wnsd
server process id.  For
.B wnsd
only.  Write the process id or "pid" of the main server process to the
file
.IR pid_file .
This file name should be the full path relative to the system root.
If this is not set either with the
.B \-q
option or via the configure script then the pid will be written to
standard output when the server is started.
.TP
.B \-S
Use the UNIX
.BR syslogd (8)
logging facility.  Instead of writing log messages to a file specified
with
.B \-L
or in
.IR config.h ,
use the UNIX
.BR syslogd (8)
facility.  If
.B WN_ERRORLOGFILE
is set to "" and the server is run with the
.B \-S
option then error logging will be handled by the
.BR syslogd (8)
facility.  If
.B WN_ERRORLOGFILE
is given a value or the
.B \-l
option is used then errors will be logged there rather than using the
.BR syslogd (8)
facility.
.TP
.BI "\-t " trusted_uid
Set trusted numeric user id.  When invoked with the
.B \-t
option alone
.B wnd
or
.B wnsd
will not serve a document unless the
.I index.cache
file listing it has the prescribed owner (uid),
.IR trusted_uid .
This numeric uid should be that of the maintainer not the one under
which
.B wnd
or
.B wnsd
runs if started by
.BR root .
Indeed, for security reasons the server will refuse to use an
.I index.cache
file whose owner is the uid under which the server is running, in this
case.  If on your server all
.I index.cache
files are created by a single user or a single group this option or
the
.B \-T option
are highly recommended.  This added security is weakened somewhat if
you also use the
.B \-u
option which allows
.I index.cache
files owned by untrusted users to permit the serving of files owned by
the same user.  If both
.B \-u
and
.B \-t
are used the trusted user specified by
.B \-t
is exempt from the
restrictions imposed by the
.B \-u
argument.
.TP
.BI "\-T " trusted_gid
Set trusted numeric group id.  This is similar to the
.B \-t
option except the numeric group owner (gid) of the
.I index.cache
file is used instead of the numeric uid.
.TP
.B \-u
Restricted untrusted users.  When this option is invoked the server
requires that every file served (including wrappers and includes) have
the same owner as the
.I index.cache
file which grants it permission to be served.  This means that
untrusted users can only serve files which they own.  If the
.B \-t
or
.B \-T
option (described above) is used with
.B \-u
then
.I index.cache
files owned by the trusted user or trusted group are exempt from this
requirement and they may grant permission to serve any file the server
can read.  If the
.B \-u
and
.B \-E
options are used together then the
.B \-E
takes precedence for execution of CGI scripts, filters and executable
includes, but the
.B \-u
still has effect for ordinary files being served.

Notice that if none of
.BR \-t ,
.BR \-T ,
and
.B \-u
are used then a user with his own home page can make a symbolic link to
any file readable by the server and that document will be served.
This is true even if the linked to document is in a directory with
limited access (see http://dochost/doc/wn/access.html) or is outside
the server data hierarchy.
.PP
.BR "\-v common" \||\c
.BR "verbose" \||\c
.BR "ncsa"
.RS
Set access logfile format.  They cause the logfile to be written in
the so-called common log format, or
.BR  wn (1)
verbose format including user agent, referrer and cookies, or in the
NCSA extended format which includes referrer and user agent.
.RE
.TP
.BI "\-V " virtual_host_file
Set file name which contains the list of virtual hosts and their root
directories.  The file
.I virtual_host_file
should be the name of the file containing the list of "virtual hosts"
and their corresponding IP numbers and root directories.  The format
of this file is one line per virtual host.  Each such line should have
the form
.nf
  hostname           ip_address       root_path
.fi
with the three parts separated by white space.  For example an entry
might be
.nf
  myhost.school.edu  111.222.333.444  /usr/local/wn
.fi

In particular the hostname should be the fully qualified domain name.
Lines in this file which are empty or start with '#' are ignored.

If the virtual host file is changed you will need to restart the
server for the change to take effect.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/wn/wn.conf
Main configuration file for
.BR wn (1)
package.
.TP
.I /etc/wn/wn.rc
.BR sh (1)
wrapper program to start
.BR wn (1)
daemon with proper options.
.TP
.I /etc/init.d/wn
.BR sh (1)
program to start
.B wnsd
stand-alone daemon from
.BR init (8)
process.
.TP
.I /etc/cron.daily/wn
.BR sh (1)
program to re-index standard documentation directories.  It is run
daily by the
.BR cron (8)
daemon.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wnconfig (8),
.BR wndex (8),
.BR wnpasswd (8),
.BR wnuncache (8),
.BR wnupdate-www (8),
.BR wnv2c (8)
.br
http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
http://dochost/doc/wn/appendixA1.html
.br
http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
.SH BUGS
I'm not sure I have all the interactions of the options properly
documented.
