.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wnupdate-www 8 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wnupdate-www \- enable access to standard directories through wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wnupdate-www
.RB (\| \-d  \||\| \-c \||\| \-o
.IR target_directory \|)
.RB (\| \-i  \||\| \-m
.IR src_directory
.RB [\| \-a
.IR name \|]\|)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wnupdate-www
is a
.BR sh (1)
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.
.BR wn (1)
will not serve files in a directory without an
.I index.cache
file.
.B wnupdate-www
provides two methods for supplying a simple default
.I index.cache
file that will enable access to all files in a directory hierarchy.

You should only use this program when there are no restriction of any
sort on who can access the files.  If there are restrictions, I
strongly recommend that you supply your own
.I index
file and run
.BR wndex (8)
directly.

The first method, which I recommended, mirrors a directory hierarchy
but not its contents.
.B wnupdate-www
recursively examines each directory.  If a directory already contains
both an
.I index
and
.I index.cache
file, it sets a symbolic link to that directory and doesn't recurse
into any subdirectories.  Otherwise it creates both the
.I index
and
.I index.cache
files that allow access indirectly through
.BR wn (1)
using the
.B File-Module
directive (seed 
.BR http://dochost/wn/module.html#db ).
This is combined with
.BR wncat (1)
to provide transparent decompression of HTML files.  The original
directory hierarchy is not modified by this method so it is
appropriate for read-only hierarchies.  The downside is the disk space
required which amount to 1.7 Mbytes for
.I /usr/doc
on my system.  Also, problematic is the effort required to keep the
mirror consistent with the original directory hierarchy.  This has
been automated with
.I /etc/cron.daily/wn
which is described in
.BR wn (1)
overview.

The second approach is to recurse through a directory hierarchy
and create both the
.I index
and
.I index.cache
files that allow access to all files in the directory directly.  This
is simpler than the first approach and more efficient space wise.  The
disadvantages is that it requires write-access to the "source"
directory.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-a " name
Define an alias
.I name
for the "target" directory when creating a mirror of "source"
directory.  Can only be used when the option
.B "\-m"
is supplied.
.TP
.B \-c
Use
.I wn_www_root/cgi-bin
as "target" directory where
.I wn_www_root is defined in
.I /etc/wn/wn.conf
configuration file.  The directory must exist.  One and only one of
the options
.B "\-d \-c \-o"
must be supplied.
.TP
.B \-d
Use
.I wn_www_root/doc
as "target" directory where
.I wn_www_root is defined in
.I /etc/wn/wn.conf
configuration file.  The directory must exist.  One and only one of
the options
.B "\-d \-c \-o"
must be supplied.
.TP
.B \-i
Recurses into "target" directory and insert a
.BR wn (1)
.I index
and
.I index.cache
files in each subdirectory.  The
.I index
file simple grants access to any file in the directory.  Note that
this modifies the "target" directory so it won't work on read-only
directories.
.TP
.BI "\-m " src_directory
Mirrors
.I src_directory
"source" directory
into "target" directory
with optionally the alias
.I name
defined by the
.B \-a
option and insert a
.BR wn (1)
.I index
and
.I index.cache
file in each subdirectory.  The index file uses redirection to the
original directory location and supports transparently compressed and
uncompressed files.  Executable files are referred to by symbolic
links.  Note that this doesn't modify
.I src_directory
and can be used for read-only directories.
.TP
.BI "\-o " directory
 Use
.I target_directory
as "target" directory.  The directory must exist.  Note that if it is
not in the wn www root directory, access will not be possible.
Symbolic links can be used however.  One and only one of
the options
.B "\-d \-c \-o"
must be supplied.
.SH EXAMPLES
To mirror the entire
.I /usr/doc
hierarchy in
.I /var/www/doc
with overwriting of all existing directories:
.nf
        update-www -o /var/www -m /usr/doc
.fi

To mirror the
.I /opt/wn/doc
hierarchy in
.I /var/www/doc/wn
without overwriting any other directories:
.nf
        update-www -d -m /opt/wn/doc -a wn
.fi

To insert
.I index
and
.I index.cache
files directly into
.I /var/www/dwww
use:
.nf
        update-www -o /var/www/dwww -i
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
.I index
Input file to
.BR wndex (8)
program.
.TP
.I index.cache
Output file from
.BR wndex (8)
program which defines access control for directory.
.TP
.I /etc/wn/wn.conf
Main configuration file for
.BR wn (1)
package.
.TP
.I /etc/cron.daily/wn
.BR sh (1)
program to re-index standard documentation directories.  It is run
daily by the
.BR cron (8)
daemon.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wnconfig (8),
.BR wndex (8),
.BR wnpasswd (8),
.BR wnuncache (8),
.BR wnv2c (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
