.\" source:
.\"   $Source: /var/cvs/projects/debian/printop/debian/dpkg.src/printop.printop.1.in,v $
.\"
.\" revision:
.\"   @(#) $Id: printop.printop.1.in,v 1.2 1998/04/23 04:31:28 jplejacq Exp $
.\"
.\" copyright:
.\"   Copyright (C) 1998 Jean Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com>
.\"
.\"   Distributed under the GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE.
.\"
.TH wnv2c 8 "Sat, 25 Apr 1998 00:34:33 -0400" "1.18.7-1" "Debian GNU/Linux manual"
.SH NAME
wnv2c \- convert logfile for wn HTTP server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wnv2c
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.RB [\| \-i
.IR ip_address \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wnv2c
is a
.BR perl (1)
program that is part of the
.BR wn (1)
HTTP server package.
.B wnv2c
converts logfiles produced by the
.BR wn (1)
server in the "verbose format" to files in the
"common format" handled by most non
.BR wn (1)
HTTP servers' stats utilities. It also can extract the entries for
each IP address of a "multi-homed" server (see
.BR http://dochost/doc/wn/multi.html )
which uses different data roots for different IP addresses.

By default
.B wnv2c
reads from standard input a
.BR wn (1)
logfile produced in the "verbose format" and writes a non-verbose one
in the "common format" to standard output.  With the
.RB [\| \-i
.IR ip_address \|]
option it writes only those entries from the interface with specified
.I ip_address
address.  For example, if you have listed three IP addresses and
corresponding data roots in the
.BR wn (1)
source file
.I wn/vhost.h
then
.nf
        wnv2c -i 123.1.2.3 <logfile >log2
.fi
will create
.I log2
the file of log entries for the interface with IP address 123.1.2.3.
Adding the
.B \-v
option gives the verbose form of log entries for this interface.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /var/log/wn
Directory containing
.BR wn (1)
log files.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR wn (1),
.BR wnconfig (8),
.BR wndex (8),
.BR wnpasswd (8),
.BR wnuncache (8),
.BR wnupdate-www (8)
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/manual.html
.br
.B http://dochost/doc/wn/utility.html#v2c
.br
.B http://hopf.math.nwu.edu/index.html
.SH AUTHOR
.B wn
is written by John Franks <john@math.nwu.edu>.  Modified by Jean
Pierre LeJacq <jplejacq@quoininc.com> as part of packaging for the
Debian GNU/Linux distribution. Manual page also added by Jean Pierre
LeJacq.
